hey let's play the associations game I
show an apple with a bite taken out of
it and you tell me what you thought of
first or how about a curvy check mark
Apple and Nike bingo today we recognize
a company by its logo faster than by its
name but what makes a logo successful
going flat
the first logos appeared in ancient
Egypt people back then use hieroglyphics
to mark their property later in medieval
times people use graphic imagery to
recognize the status of different houses
the modern era of logos began in the
19th century the development of
typography pushed the advertising
industry forward people started to use
bold decorative typefaces and images and
newspapers brands immediately grabbed
the idea and started putting their names
on the pages to draw readers attention
to their products next step colors when
industrialization was at full speed the
number of companies grew brands needed
to stand out from the crowd somehow so
they added eye catching colored images
to their names one of the first
companies to do that was shell in 1897
the company's founder chose a mussel
shell for the logo because his father
was an importer of seashells to London
collectors today it's one of the most
familiar commercial logos in the world
Levi's is known for its iconic two-horse
logo the image of horses trying to pull
apart a pair of jeans was created in
1886 it was made to show customers how
durable the company's jeans are over the
years the brand created two other logos
the red tab and the batwing this second
represents the shape of the back pocket
on a pair of 501s
over time logos became more elaborate
and sophisticated some being nothing
short of a masterpiece but in the second
half of the 20th century designers
realized that a logo should be cleaned
catchy and easy to remember
that's when brands turned their heads to
simplicity the person who changed
everyone's opinion on visual
communication was Paul ran he created
the eight bar IBM logo which made the
company's initials instantly
recognizable throughout the world Rand
style still has a huge impact on graphic
designers today the coming of the
digital era paved the way for companies
to use dynamic logo types a prime
example of this is Google Doodles
changing the logo on the main page it
can change the content but the overall
structure remains the same there used to
remind us about holidays achievements
and some historical events and figures
now look at the footer of the search
page the logo type can stretch with an
additional o for each page results even
when touchscreens came around not
everyone was ready to switch from
reality to the virtual world to adapt
these innovations easier designers made
3d icons for gadget screens they added
shadows volume and textures to the
images to make them look like a real
thing a design concept called skeuomorph
ISM sounds like something you can be
treated with medication for companies
took note and made their logos more 3d
looking as the world got more used to
new technologies designer shifted back
to 2d the minimalist flat design became
popular because it gave more screen
space for functionality another
advantage of this flat design is that 2d
logos look good on both small and large
screens but even with this new trend
some brands were firmly sticking to
their realistic 3d logos and app icons
but the world changed when Apple
announced the iOS 7 in June 2013
this operating system was the first to
get rid of skeuomorphism the new design
pushed more developers to flatten their
apps to be in tune with the operating
system just a year later more than 90%
of iPhones were running on iOS 7 after
the jump to a more practical flat design
the 3d type became obsolete now even
companies outside the tech industry like
Volkswagen have simplified their logos
to be more minimal
but some companies have used the same
logo for decades
like Chupa Chups this logo type was
designed in 1969 by the surrealist
artist Salvador Dali coca-cola was using
its famous script in advertisements back
in 1886 later the brand adopted its
distinct red color many companies use it
today in their brand names and logos
because it immediately catches the eye
the standard color and ribbon wave made
the coca-cola brand name recognizable
even if it's written in different
languages logo type design often
involves a whole team of high paid
professionals but not for all famous
logos Nike swoosh was done by then
graphic design student Carolyn Davidson
for just 35 bucks but don't worry she
got a much better compensation once the
company went big miss Lee's logo used to
be the Nestle family coat of arms
decorated with a bird sitting in a nest
in 1868 they developed the first version
of the logo we all know today a mother
bird feeding her three little chicks the
upgrade was to reflect the company's
main activity in baby nutrition but look
closer at the logo today there are only
two young birds as the story goes the
third bird was removed to better
illustrate the average modern family of
two children
either that or a hawk got the third one
Hey just saying you wouldn't even
recognize Apple's first logo it looks
like an old intricate engraving the
flowy ribbon wrapped around it reads
Apple Computer and company but squint
your eyes for a closer look you'll see a
man sitting under a tree beautiful hills
rolling in the background the man is
reading a book and above him hangs a
single Apple yes it's Isaac Newton
himself the now-familiar apple with a
bite appeared the next year in 1977 an
effective logo should not only be simple
and distinctive but also have a smart
concept just look at the Airbnb logo it
combines three symbols the head of a
traveller a location icon
Anna Hart the shape of the logo
represents the letter A which is the
first letter of the brand's name the
Beats Electronics company logo also has
two layers the first one is clear a
white circle inside a bigger red one
resembles the letter B for beats but
look again do you see a side view of
someone wearing headphones
cool huh however the only thing that
really counts is great logo or not will
you buy the product
[Music]